## Assignment 7
This Assignment combines the script from Assignment 5 and Assignment 6 into a single Makefile. This Makefile automates several steps in the analysis of genomic data, including downloading genomes, simulating reads, downloading sequencing reads from SRA, trimming reads, and generating quality control reports.

Organism used: *Saccharomyces cerevisiae*

### Prerequisites
To use the Makefile, ensure that the following tools are installed:

```wget``` – For downloading genome files.

```gunzip``` – For decompressing files.

```wgsim``` – For simulating sequencing reads.

```fastq-dump``` – For downloading reads from the Sequence Read Archive (SRA).

```fastqc``` – For generating quality control reports.

```fastp``` – For trimming sequencing reads.

```jq``` – Optional, used for processing JSON output from the datasets.

These tools can typically be installed using a package manager like conda.Also make sure to activate your conda environment before proceeding.

### Makefile Overview

The Makefile includes the following key tasks:

**Usage Help**: Displays a list of all available tasks with a brief description of what each does.

**Genome Download**: Downloads the genome file from Ensembl and prepares it for simulation or further analysis.

**Read Simulation**: Simulates paired-end sequencing reads using wgsim.

**SRA Download**: Downloads sequencing reads from SRA and runs an initial quality control report.

**Read Trimming**: Trims reads using fastp using default parameters

**Read Retrimming**: Trim reads using fastp but this time cutting the tail

**Cleanup**: Removes all files generated during the process, including the genome, reads, and reports.

**Selective Cleanup**: Removes only the .html and .json reports generated by fastp.


### Instructions
To download a genome, simulate reads, or process SRA data, modify the Makefile variables as necessary (e.g., accession numbers for genome and SRA data). Execute tasks using a single command or combination of commands. You can clean up files or just remove certain generated reports depending on the workflow stage.

### How to run the workflow
1. Download the genome
```bash
make genome
```
2. Simulate reads
```bash
make simulate
```
3. Download SRA reads
```bash
make download
```
4. Trim reads using default parameters
```bash
make trim
```
5. Generate fastqc reports
```bash
make report1
```
6. Retrim reads by cutting the tail
```bash
make retrim
```
7. Generate fastqc report for retrimmed reads
```bash
make reports2
```
8. Clean up all files
```bash
make clean
```


